Now that we're relatively comfortable with promises let's try and refactor this little demo from earlier
where we had a button that was moving and eventually running out of room potentially and stopping.
So if we can't go further if we can't go whatever two hundred or pixels whatever the chump was let's
see I think it was 300 pixels.
Yeah.
So if we can't go another three and four pixels it stops and we achieve this by using a bunch of set
timeouts and then changing the transform property of the button.
But every time in that set time out we would check.
Do we have room to move.
If we don't have room to move we would call one callback that was passed in the on failure callback
if we did have room to move.
We called the on success callback.
So we ended up passing two callbacks in every time we call move X and if we wanted the first one to
complete the first move of through under pixels before the second one started we have to use these callbacks
with the way that we've set it up without promises.
It's a bunch of nesting a bunch.
I mean a whole bunch.
As we saw very very painful.
So let's rewrite this using promises.
I'll comment this out so we don't get the original movement going on and I'll also duplicate this and
commented out and then I guess I'll do it at the top here.
We're going to refactor move X. It's going to no longer accept and on success and success and on failure
it's going to instead return a new promise.
Remember this promise takes a function as its argument resolve and reject which are also two functions.
And then we can move this logic from before into our promise.
What is it called execute or function.
Maybe I'm making it up.
I'm pretty sure that's what it's called but inside of this new Promised function.
So instead of calling on failure we would reject the promise if we can't move.
We're calculating the end of the body.
How much how many pixels we have.
Let's say nine hundred pixels or something.
Actually we can see it's telling me I'm at what twelve twenty five pixels.
Then we're calculating the right of the button and then the current left of the button which we use
if we are going to move and we want to check if the right whatever let's say eight hundred pixels plus
the amount we're trying to move 300 pixels.
If that is greater than the boundary will reject meaning stop we're not going to continue.
Otherwise instead of on success we'll call resolve.
So very similar code except we've wrapped it in a promise that we're returning and we're not using we're
not passing in two callbacks every single time.
So now how would we use this.
It would look like this move x of button let's do three hundred pixels and the delay of one second dot
then and we're not passing any value in when we are rejecting or resolving we could possibly maybe when
we reject.
We could include a reason we could include the maybe the current position of the element we could do
something with it and then we've got our dot then why don't we just cancel that log done moving and
start there.
So I'm going to refresh the page it moves and we get done moving.
OK.
So if we wanted another move X after that first one like we had before we moved three or pixels we move
three or pixels again one second later we don't have to nest it all we need to do is call move X again
move x button three hundred pixels over one second not two seconds.
And if I wanted another dot then yes you could do this.
Put it inside the existing dot then callback or we just return this promise.
This gives us a promise now which is what we saw in the last video we can change promises and I can
put another dot then here and now I can console dialogue done done with both OK so we do the first thing
that takes some time when it finishes when that one second is over the button has moved assuming it
has room which it should.
We're only going through entered pixels then we're going to move X again which will return a promise.
It may or may not be completed or resolved depending on if we have the number the correct number of
pixels the correct space to keep moving and if we do this then we'll run.
We don't have a catch yet.
But this should be good because you're only moving 600 total and then we get done with both.
So that only prints out after to move X functions are done both promises have been resolved.
So now if we wanted to do like five of them all we need to do is duplicate this a couple of times.
So now we're moving four times first three hundred pixels it takes a second.
As soon as it's done but not sooner as soon as it's done then this runs and then as soon as that finishes
and hopefully is resolved this runs then this runs.
We don't have a catch yet so we may run out of space 300 300.
We have space now.
Yes.
UNCUT so we had a rejected promise but we didn't catch it.
And as we saw all we need is one dot catch and we'll consider it log.
Now let's do the constant log out of space cannot move
and we should see one more time.
Here we go.
Outer space cannot move.
And if I instead changed it.
So we're trying to move like I don't know three thousand pixels on the third move x.
We'll still have the same catch work.
It will catch that promise which is rejected it will catch the error so let's try that first jump.
Second Jump Jump can't happen.
Outer space cannot move.
Now it's really cool is in situations like this where all we're doing in the dot then callback is returning
another promise.
We can shorten it up as we've seen with aero functions.
If you do choose to use aero functions if you are returning something and it's the only expression the
only line you can use an implicit return.
So you could use parentheses.
We don't have to write the return keyword can just do this right here.
Just like that and we can chain them together.
So I'm just going to replace what I have with a couple of these let's do five of them and keep our one
sketch.
So this only works to make it super concise and just nice not a bunch of curly braces that only works
if there's only one expression and it should be returned implicitly.
So we don't write return but it's being returned if you need some review on that.
Check out the aero function section.
OK.
So let's check it out first move.
Second move.
Third fourth and then we run out of space.
Awesome.
So I could change this to be 100 pixels and do this a whole bunch.
We'll see when we run out of space one more time it still I guess removing three 300 at the very first
time didn't change that one.
And now we're out of space.
Pretty cool stuff.
I think it's a really nice nice way of shortening your coat up and making it.
It's not even about shortening it it's making it just easier to follow.
If we compare this is a huge mess.
Not only isn't nested but we had to pass in to callbacks so we get this ugly like I don't know what
to call this like a triangle a pyramid mirror image the reflection there go of all of these callbacks
even if they're doing the same thing.
The failure callback here we just need a single dot catch and it does a trick.
So the last thing we could do is refactor this a bit so our DOT catch could actually know this callback
could know where it was stopped why we didn't keep moving to the right.
Basically we know we're out of room but we could print out you.
The button is currently at five under pixels and you tried to move three hundred but the body is X or
who knows.
We could just make a little object when we reject that included.
Let's say the body boundary and I'll just use the shorthand here so body boundary will be the key and
whatever it holds will be the value.
Let's also add in the element right in the amount.
So we'll have three different properties that we are passing through when we reject then down here when
we catch we can just add in our objects.
We'll just call this.
You can call it error but it's not really an error.
We'll call it data as a parameter and let's grab.
We could just structure actually if we want body boundary we want.
Amount and what else was there.
All right.
Okay so we can consider log something like body is in situ template literal string template literal
body is body boundary p x wide and then below that council that log let's say element is at L right
P X comma and then we'll display the amount P X is too large.
Okay.
So we reject with that information rather than just blindly always printing out outer space cannot move.
Let's see what happens when we finally hit that catch.
Oh I forgot.
Did all these one hundred pixel little tiny jumps.
Okay here we go.
Body is thirteen fifty four pixels element is at twelve ninety seven one hundred pixels is too large
because that would take us to thirteen ninety seven and that's pretty much it.
So still a very simple example not the most useful thing to do ever but you can see what a massive difference
this made I mean we're doing what 10 15 different calls to move X and they're happening one after another
and all of them are handled if something goes wrong if they fail we don't have room This catches all
of them.
Compare that to this.
This is only five or so different move X calls if we wanted to replicate this off I mean I would I would
be here forever we would have at least twice as much code as we have right now and it would be incredibly
nested in hard to keep track of.
So that is a real value of promises.
It's not just about doing asynchronous things and being able to run some code afterwards.
It's also about being able to catch any time a promise is rejected having a single catch it makes a
huge difference.
We don't have to have 10 or 20 different catches one per each dot then for each promise as long as we
return a promise in the dot then which is what we're doing thanks to an implicit aero function return.
All right so we're now moving on from our sort of Playland promises very we're doing very very trivial
simple things.
And next we'll move on to making real HDP requests and use promises those functions those methods return
promises.
So we'll get practice with all this fun stuff that we've seen so far.